NAUTY-WATERCLUSTER2(1)           Nauty Manual           NAUTY-WATERCLUSTER2(1)



NAME
       nauty-watercluster2 - (faster alternative to directg)

SYNOPSIS
       watercluster2 [ix] [oy] [S] [T] [B] [Z] [C] [m]

DESCRIPTION
              Reads  graphs  in g6 code or multicode (optional) from stdin and
              directs them

              ix: the indegree of every vertex may be at most x.

              The default maximum indegree is unlimited.

              oy: the outdegree of every vertex may be at most y.

              The default maximum outdegree is unlimited.

              S : allow that for every pair of vertices x,y at most one of the
              edges x-->y

              and y-->x may be present. By default both of them may be present
              in the same graph.

              T : Output directed graphs in T-code. This  is  a  simple  ASCII
              output format.

              Every  line  contains  one  graph. First the number of vertices,
              then the number of directed edges and then the list of  directed
              edges  with  the start first and the end then. E.g.: 3 2 0 1 2 1
              means 3 vertices, 2 directed edges: 0-->1 and 2-->1

              B : Output the directed graphs in a binary code. Every  item  of
              the code is an

              unsigned  char. The first unsigned char is the number nv of ver-
              tices. The vertices are numbered 1..nv. Then the  list  of  ver-
              tices  x  for  which  there is a directed edge 1->x follow. This
              list is ended by a 0. Then the list of outgoing neighbours of  2
              follows -- again ended with a 0, etc.  The code is complete with
              the 0 ending the list of outgoing neighbours of nv.

              Z : Output the directed graphs in digraph6 code. See formats.txt
              for a

              complete definition.

              C  :  Do really construct all the directed graphs in memory, but
              don't output

              them. This is not a big difference in case of restricted in- and
              outdegrees, because all that is done extra is that edges are di-
              rected instead of just keeping track  of  in-  and  out-degrees.
              This  option  is intended only for testing purposes to test also
              routines that are normally not used when counting.  Things  that
              would speed up the counting also in some cases of restricted in-
              and out-degrees -- like multiplying the possibilities of assign-
              ing directions to edges that can be assigned directions indepen-
              dent of each other (depending on the degrees of the  endvertices
              and  overlaps)  -- are not included.  In case of not restrictive
              bounds on the in- and out-degree it not really constructing  the
              graphs  can  be  considerably faster. In cases of restricted in-
              and out-degrees the only difference is that the graph isn't mod-
              ified.  The fact that in case of no output the graph is not mod-
              ified is mainly to save time for the one case of  waterclusters,
              where  large  numbers were determined. If large numbers (without
              output) for other cases shall be determined,  one  should  think
              about adding the multiplication routines.

              m : read multicode instead of g6 code

       This  program  uses  different  labelling  routines -- all based on the
       ideas of

       G.  Brinkmann,   Generating   water   clusters   and   other   directed
       graphs,mJournal of Mathematical Chemistry 46, 1112--1121 (2009)



nauty 2.7.3                     September 2021          NAUTY-WATERCLUSTER2(1)
